Welcome to this tutorial on setting up an EODR compliance workflow using QGIS emerging maps. I am Vto and I will show you how to build a complete field data collection system that meets the European Union forestation regulation requirements. By the end of this video, you'll know how to create a Q.JS project for mapping agricultural plots, deploy it for mobile data collection with merging maps, and generate the geospatial data needed for your due diligence statements. First, let's understand what UDR requires for geospatial data. The regulation demands plot level traceability with coordinates in WGS84 format recorded to six decimal places. which is roughly submeter accuracy. For plots larger than four hectares, you must provide polygon boundaries. For smaller plots, a single point coordinate is acceptable. This workflow applies to any year coffee, cocoa, soy, rubber, cattle, timber, or oil palm. And the critical date to remember is December 31st, 2020. For today's project, we'll be setting up forms around the Amazon jungle and Par State, Brazil. All right, let's cut the chase and go to QGIS. Let's first make sure we have Mergin Maps plug-in installed. We go to plugins, manage and install plugins. Then under all, search for mering maps and we click install plugin. All right, with the plugin installed, we can go here and type our credentials. I'll leave the link in the description so you can create your own account. And after typing your credentials, we hit okay. And I am logged into emerging maps. Once logged in, I can access all my projects directly from QGIS through the merge maps tab. Now we are going to create our merge maps project. For that we click on the plus icon new basic Q.js project. We can select the workspace the project will be located. We can also make it public and select the folder the project will be located to. I come here now and I will type a project name. Let's say forms Brazil and then I hit finish. Okay, my project's now created and I can access it from my mobile device and also from merge maps website. These layers won't be used. We can remove them from the project and also from the project folder to remove the survey points. Nice. The other thing we want to do to ensure our project is the right UDR CRS. We come here on the project properties. We hit 43 26. We come here under 4326 WGS84. We click here. Then we click on apply. Okay. Now our product is in the right UDR CRS. Stepping back for a moment, you might already have a spreadsheet like this in your workflow containing all the data about your forms, cooperatives, and much more. Here's an example in Google Sheets that contain informations about forms, commodities, operatives, and municipalities. This is just a sample, but you can use any type of data you want and easily bring it into QGIS and emerging maps to help you fill your features. We'll come to file, download, and CSV so we can incorporate all the data from this spreadsheet into our QGIS project. In order to use that CSV file we just downloaded into our mering maps project, let's drag it into merging maps project folder. This is very important because this way synchronization will happen correctly and we'll be able to access this data into the mobile devices and our website. Let's rename it to something nicer. forms data and drag it into layers panel. Now we go to open attribute table. We can see all the data from the spreadsheet directly in QGIS. We'll be using this data layer. We'll create a layer representing the forms and the geo package database for it. So for doing it we go under layer tabs create layer new geo package layer for the database have let's add merge maps products folder and udrgp let's name this table forms for geometry tag the polygon remember that for plots smaller 4 hectares. You can add a point CRS. Let's set as the project CRS. Let's begin adding the fields. So the first field we can name is the PL ID as a text. We can identify each different plot it ID form name which we'll be getting from the CFV. It's also added commodity tag which types we can also be getting from the CSD production date which leads to the December 31st 2020. Let's added date. It's also a latitude, a decimal, a longitude, also as a decimal. Add the area in hectors for each plot also as a decimal. the country which in this project will be Brazil by default the text municipality which we'll be getting from the CSV as well name which we can automatically get from origin maps and for less collection set as data. This way we'll have information that represents every plot. Now a double check. Hit okay. And we have our forms layer. Now that we have satellite ready, let's configure a layer to make field data collection as smooth as possible. Right click on forms layer and then we select properties. And before navigating to attributes form where we'll be setting the forms, let's first go to fields because I forgot to add cooperative field. So we click on the pencil new field. Let's name it cooperative and select text as a type. Then we hit okay. Then we can click again on the pencil, hit save and apply. Then we go to the attributes form. The first thing we want to do is switch the top here from alter generate to drag and drop designer. This gives us complete control over how our forms will look and behave in the field. So let's start customizing our fields. First we'll hide FID field. it's generated automatically and our data collectors don't need to see it. So we go to widget type and in the dropdown we select hidden. For the plot ID field we want each plot to have a unique identifier. So let's scroll down and under defaults let's add the default value as union ID or form name. Let's change the widget type from text edit to value map. This allows us to add values directly from the layer we generated from our CSV file. So we click load data from layer. We select the layer and as value we want form name so as the description and we click okay. Let's do the same for commodity type, municipality and cooperative. So for commodity type, let's click on value map load data from layer forms data. Commodity is already selected. Okay. For municipality, let's do the same. So value map load data from layer forms data municipality and municipality then we hit okay and cooperative since we just added we can drag it and let's place it right after form name again we click on value map load data from layer forms data then cooperative save so as the description. Next, for production date, we can leave it as daytime as a standard date picker. Latitude and longitude fields are optional as all the coordinates from the polygon will be inside the giojson we'll generate afterwards. But in case you want a point inside the polygon so you can have some perspective of the location of the polygon, we can add the expression point or surface and also X point on earth surface geometry or longitudes. Now for the plot area hectares, we have a particularly useful one. We can have the area calculated automatically in hectors. For that we can use this following expression area slash 10,000. This way the area will be converted from square meters to hectares and we'll have it automatically. For country the default value will be Brazil under a single quote because we are only serving in in Brazil here. Municipality we have already done. collector name. Let's use merging maps merging username expression. It will get your name, the name of the collector. And for collection date, let's also add an expression now. So right when the collector adds a new feature, this date will be collected on the same time. You can also add field aliases to display more user friendly names or translate field names into different languages depending on who is going to collect the data. In this project, for instance, we can add form name as Nomi Azenda which is in Portuguese in case Portuguese speaking people will be collecting the data. And you can do the same for all the fields of your project. To make our form plots visually clear and easy to work with both in QGIS and out in the field with merging maps, let's style our forms layer. For that, we go to the symbology tab. Let's select a style. For this one, I'll select this point and line pattern. lens select color ra for the stroke and for points let's select purple one. This way the contrast will be high and we'll be able to see the forms out there in the satellite imagery. Let's increase a bit the saddle points and hit apply. You might also want to have different plot styling depending on certain values of the fields. So let's say you want to have different plot styling based on the commodity type. You could come to select as value commodity type then hit classify. You have some data. This way you'll have a different symbology for each type of commodity. Now that we have our forms layer styling set, let's synchronize. So then we can access this project on merging maps. So we hit okay. I'll zoom in to some oil palm farms here in PA Brazil. And after finding the area that I will be collecting points, then we go to project tab properties. Now view settings and we check step project full extent. Then we click on map canvas extent. We hit apply. Okay. And then we click on synchronize merging maps project button. Do you want to save them before continue? Yes. Then we hit sync. We'll be seeing this exact region on the mobile app and we'll be ready to collect all guns around it. Now let's switch to merge maps mobile app. In my phone I have downloaded merging maps from app store. You can also do it from play store. And after downloaded let's open it. With merging maps app opened. I want to first log in. I click here. Then I type my credentials. After typing my credentials I hit sign in. And then I am able to see my homepage, my project page or explore page to see public projects. And the projects page I can search for my project. And after finding it, I can click on install. I just click on the project. So I can open it. As we see this is the exact extent we've set for the project. Now in the mobile app let's zoom in and capture some data. We click on add button and we make sure the layer selected is the forms layer. For that we go to the top and we see that the layer selected forms. So we are good to go. You can also use your GPS location to collect the polygon. For that, you click on the steps icon and you go walking along the plot and the polygon will be adding the points of your exact location. Since I'm far away from the plot, I'll be recording with the coordinates of the center of the screen. So, we begin adding points. After adding all the points, we click on record. Then we can begin filling the forms. We can select the form name also the cooperative from the list we got from the CSV, commodity type, oil pump or production date. As you see all the other attributes as latitude, longitude, area, entry and the collector name already filled. There I select the municipality and the collection date is also automatic. I only needed to fill some of the fields. Then I click on the check at the top. And my polygon is registered. And we click on it. We can see the values that we added to this polygon. After collecting all your plots, you can click on the sync button and all of these data will be updated in the cloud. Back in QGIS, I'm still not able to see the data I have just collected. And for doing so, click again on the sync button. And we hit sync. We close this dialogue. And now we can see the plot we've recorded using the mobile app. If we click to see its attributes, we can find the exact same information we've added in the mobile web here in QGIS. The final step of this tutorial is to export your plots layer as gojson, which is the format required by UDR. to do so let's right click arms layer then go to export and click on save features as here for format we select gojson and for file name I'll add para plots and today's date for CRS S you can select the project CRS and we click okay. We can see the gojson under the merging maps projects folder and we can open this gojson to understand it better. We'll see that all the fields values for each plot we've recorded are here. So as its coordinates you can send this giojson to UDR to confirm your plots are compliant. Thanks for watching this tutorial. See you next time.